# NYC 2016 Brainstorming session

A 2016 brainstorming session was held in New York City to identify "best
practices" (though perhaps the term "recommended practices" is better,
since that's a more accurate description).  In particular, the idea was
to help identify these practices.

Below are notes from that session - this was reviewed
to identify potential criteria (at any level).
This was also recorded as GitHub issue #473.

Practices of what? Not just code.

The top-level categories were;

- Good documentation
- Community mgmt
- Make it easy for people to contribute
- Testing
- Discoverability
- Release control
- Security disclosure/response
- License your project (OSS)
- CLAs
- Governance
- Security development lifecycle
- Operational security of project (project IT)
- Dependency mgmt (Ecosystem)

We Should packages "measure" best practice, e.g. for use at install time.

Difficult to apply one universal evaluation. Subjective, different concerns,
etc.

One challenge is that lessons learned don't spread.

Some practices are difficult to use because of signal-to-noise:

- make check generating thousands of legacy "problems"
- no power to assert "zero warnings" on other peoples' projects
- AI: perhaps have Debian (say) turn "make check" on by default so
      that it has to be disabled selectively (rather than enabled)

AI: commonly-used build systems could be updated to do ASAN builds
and checks

Best practices can be trumped by business/commercial considerations

AI: distributions/packaging mechanisms would convey "best practice"
attributes to worthy packages. (TBD what counts as "worthy")

Below are more detailed recommended practices (these are raw notes from
the brainstorming session).

## Release control

1. Stable release branches - yes but in a different way.  Instead of
  "branches" (which is git-specific), we require the more general notion
  of tagging, which is in version_tags
2. Version numbers for releases - yes, in version_unique
3. Use semantic versioning - yes, in version_semver
4. Version control - yes, in  repo_public, repo_track, and repo_distributed
5. Release notes (major changes) for each release - yes, release_notes
6. Intermediate versions are publicly released (no surprises in release) -
   yes, repo_interim
7. Issue tracker (GitHub, Bugzilla, etc.) - yes, report_process and
   report_tracker.

## Good documentation & design

1. Documentation - yes, documentation_basics and documentation_interface
2. README explaining whys & hows - yes, documentation_basics, description_good
3. Published roadmap for future improvements - proposed as documentation_roadmap
4. A short intro about the project on the webpage & README -
   yes, documentation_basics
5. API guidelines / style guide - for the API, see documentation_interface.
   For code, proposed under coding_standards.
6. Design documents - **Added**.  This is related to know_secure_design.
   Some is in proposed implement_secure_design and
   proposed documentation_security.

## Dependency management

1. Accurate makefile dependencies - If a project uses makefiles (or
  something like them), and there are a few inaccurate dependencies,
  those are just a bugs - we don't want them, but projects can find and
  fix bugs.  To be a criterion, we need a general rule that people should
  follow that is widely agreed on as being an improvement & has evidence
  to support it.  This is harder.  We could say, "maximally automate
  dependencies" - but it's hard to measure maximal.  We could say,
  "avoid recursive make", citing
  ["Recursive Make Considered Harmful" by Peter Miller](https://web.archive.org/web/20200209034547/http://aegis.sourceforge.net/auug97.pdf).
  Note that
  ["Non-recursive Make Considered Harmful"](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/people/simonpj/papers/ghc-shake/ghc-shake.pdf)
  agrees that recursive make approaches are bad; its argument is that
  for large projects you should use a tool other than make (which is
  fine, we're agnostic about the build system - BadgeApp uses rake).
  Something like: "The project MUST NOT use recursive-subdirectory build
  systems where there are cross-dependencies in the subdirectories." -
  draft criterion build_non_recursive
2. External dependencies listed and traceable - Added as external_dependencies.  It doesn't specifically say "traceable", but we think it gets the point across.

## Code review

Code reviews - yes, see proposed two_person_review and security_review.

Maybe more specific code review criteria could be added, suggestions
welcome.

## Community Management

1. Code of conduct (CoC) - code_of_conduct.
2. Be nice - this is *not* universally agreed on.  Wheeler suggests you
  should be nice to people & hard on code, but many people have trouble
  seeing the difference.  Also, there's a difference between "I'm offended"
  and "I'm attacked" - the latter is the issue.  Suggest that the key
  issue here is addressed by code_of_conduct.
3. Discoverability - Presumably in this context this is "can I find the
  project?" and "Can I find out how to interact with it?"  The first part
  is primarily addressed by criterion description_good - since once that's
  done, search engines can help people find it. Getting a badge also helps
  with the first part. The second part is helped by criteria interact,
  contribution, and contribution_requirements.
4. Have project & repo URL - already in criteria.

## Other

1. Feature roadmap - proposed in criterion documentation_roadmap.
2. KISS (Keep it Simple) - worthy goal, but very difficult to measure
  and determine whether or not it's achieved.  We do require that people
  be aware of this, as part of criterion know_secure_design.
3. Use code formatters - proposed in criterion coding_standards_enforced.
  We already had coding_standards, but based on this comment have split out
  coding_standards_enforced as a separate item to emphasize enforcement.
  We don't specifically require the use of a code formatter - many projects
  simply use a checker, instead of a reformatter, so we simply require
  enforcement and let the project decide how to enforce it.

## Security disclosure/reporting

1. Bug reporting instructions - yes, already there in criterion report_process.
2. Explain how to report vulnerabilities / A way to report security
  bugs / Security vulnerability reporting procedure - yes, already there
  in criterion vulnerability_report_process.
3. Incident response SLA. Yes, report_response and
   vulnerability_report_response, vulnerabilities_fixed_60_days

## Operational security of project

1. Two-factor authentication for developers - proposed as
   two_factor_authentication (passing+2)
2. Email/issue tracker security - Just saying "your project's development
  infrastructure secure" is too nebulous - people will agree, but will say
  they're already doing it.  Email security is challenging; GnuPG is used,
  but many find it difficult to deploy in practice, especially to less
  technically savvy people.  Mandating a specific technique, like GnuPG,
  doesn't seem like a good approach.  We're not sure how to turn this into
  a specific criterion.
3. HTTPS for project & repo sites - yes, sites_https
4. Signed releases - yes, proposed as signed_releases

## Make it easy for people to contribute

1. Issues marked for new contributors - yes, proposed small_tasks
2. Contributing guide/doc - yes, in criteria interact, contribution,
  and contribution_requirements
3. Documented process for how patches get accepted - yes, in criteria
  interact, contribution, and contribution_requirements
4. Low barrier to entry (tools, workflows, etc.) - added as new potential
  criterion installation_development_quick
5. Acknowledge bug reports (don’t just sit there) - yes, criterion
  report_responses.  This only requires a majority, not every single report.
6. Public comment channel (for support) - yes, report_archive,
  report_archive, report_tracker, report_tracker
7. Acknowledge/credit contributions & contributors - Added
  vulnerability_report_credit for giving credit for vulnerability reports.
  For just generic contributions trying to do this separately  can get very
  long, and many successful projects don't try to do this. In addition,
  version control systems already record this (e.g., "git log" and "git
  blame").  In conclusion, it's not clear that adding this as a separate
  criterion is a universal good for general contributions.
8. Assume good intention - give commit access soon, revoke & revert if
  needed - No, because different successful projects disagree on this.
  Node.js prefers this approach, however, many other successful projects
  (such as the Linux kernel) expressly do *not* do this.  In addition,
  from a security point-of-view, assuming good intentions is not always
  realistic, especially since "revoke and revert" can be difficult if the
  committer is actively malicious.  Projects can choose whether or not to
  do this.

## Testing!

1. Add tests when add major new functionality - yes, test_policy and
  tests_are_added
2. Code coverage.  Yes, proposed as test_statement_coverage80 and
  test_statement_coverage90 and test_branch_coverage80
3. Test coverage >=N% (statement? Branch? other?) - Yes, proposed
  as test_statement_coverage80 and test_statement_coverage90 and
  test_branch_coverage80
4. Automated test suite - yes, criterion test
5. Make check with ASAN - yes, dynamic_analysis_unsafe
6. Continuous integration (2x) - yes, proposed criteria
   continuous_integration and automated_integration_testing
7. Can build it - criterion build and build_common_tools; see also
  build_repeatable and build_reproducible
8. For parsers, etc: FUZZ - yes in general, though we don't require
  fuzzing specifically.  Criterion dynamic_analysis.
9. Use dynamic analysis tools - Criterion dynamic_analysis.
10. Use static analysis tools / static analysis coverage of code -
  yes for the first part - criterion static_analysis.  Unclear what the
  author meant about "static coverage of code" - if what was meant was
  coverage of tests, see proposed criteria test_statement_coverage80 and
  test_statement_coverage90 and test_branch_coverage80
11. Use warning flags - yes, criterion warning_flags and
  proposed warnings_strict

## How to get best practices applied

These are not changes to the criteria, but ideas on how to get the
criteria more easily applied.

1. Make things easier/automatic (distro/repo maintainers) - Proposed
  as https://github.com/coreinfrastructure/best-practices-badge/issues/621
2. Debtags.debian.net
3. Show intrinsic value to project
4. Submit these changes to popular projects
5. Contact Debian maintainer - put in tags to best practice badge
6. At usual time- tell user/developer best practices status
7. On GitHub/etc. Page, show some best practice status
8. Language-specific package managers (npm, bundler, …)
  tell people if not meet best practices
9. $ pay project to change
10. Must uncomment (dependencies?) to get “ugly” packages
11. Run lintian and for … (Debian)
